# Incident: 2024-12-05 10:24

## Summary

- Between 10:24 AM and 11:34 AM, latency for pizza JWT token creation increased to over 30 seconds for all users (70 minutes total)
- This was caused by a submission to the autograder website (cs329.cs.byu.edu) on December 4, which caused this latency to occur at 10:24 AM December 5
- Alerts for this problem were sent out after the pizza creation latency, and the overall endpoint latency, both went over the alert thresholds.
- This high-severity event impacted 0 real world users, and upwards of 1 virtual user

## Leadup

Around 23:00 on December 4 (the day before the incident), the Deliverable 11 option for chaos was chosen on the CS 329 autograding website (cs329.cs.byu.edu). This resulted in the bug being intentionally introduced for learning purposes on the pizza creation factory website.


## Detection

Due to the Grafana alerts focused on latency (pizza creation, and net endpoint) that were set up, the DevOps team was notified shortly after the latency spiked. In addition, the Grafana metrics dashboard showed a drop in authentication requests and revenue creation at the same time, which confirmed that there was a problem.

## Impact

- This high-severity event impacted 0 real world users, and upwards of 1 virtual user for 70 minutes
- No tickets were submitted by any means

## Timeline

All times are UTC.

- _10:24_ - Latency spikes
- _10:28_ - DevOp team (Hyrum Taylor) notified, starts to look at the problem on the Grafana Pizza Service Dashboard, Grafana logs, and AWS ECS
- _10:33_ - Pizza creation latency identified as source of alerts
- _10:56_ - Pizza Factory identified as source of latency (code review, and AWS has no relevant logs)
- _11:29_ - Stephen (TA) asked for assistance; chaos resolving URL found in Grafana logs
- _11:34_ - Incident resolved

## Response

After receiving a page at 10:25, Hyrum Taylor came online at 10:26 in Grafana and AWS.

This engineer found the source of the latency, but did not scroll to the end of the JWT token in the HTTP logs, so Stephen (TA) was asked for help. Stephen recommended scrolling to the end of a pizza order HTTP response, after which the incident was resolved.

# Root cause

This website’s functionality depends on the CS 329 JWT Pizza creation website. Because of this, this website is vulnerable to non-controllable events like a latency spike.

## Resolution

The HTTP responses from the pizza token creation website contained a URL which, when run from a browser, would remove the latency. For future reference, this URL is after the (very long) JWT token. When this URL was run, the latency was nearly instantly resolved.

This URL looks like: https://cs329.cs.byu.edu/api/report?apiKey=#@#@#@#

# Action items

- Contact pizza creation website to ensure delays like this will not happen again
- Write JWT creation code myself so as to not rely on another website

# Conclusion

This was a very interesting and informative exercise. Due to this exercise, I feel much more prepared for problems that arise in the future. I also learned some of the dangers of relying on someone else’s website for an application: while it is nice to not need to worry about every detail of your application, there is also danger of someone else’s mistake crashing your application.